- title: Origins
  years:
    - subtitle: Legal Disputes
      description:
        - line: "A legal tussle over a plot of burial ground in 1898 furnishes some information on the beginnings of the Jalan Kubor Cemetery. In March 1898, the Supreme Court heard the case of Syed Abdul Rahman bin Ali Aljunied versus George d’Almeida, which was a dispute over an Arab burial ground on Rochor Road. The plaintiff, Syed Abdul Rahman, claimed that the burial land was part of a plot granted by Sultan Ali (son of Sultan Hussein Shah of Singapore) to Syed Omar Aljunied through a deed of indenture dated 1 February 1842. On 1 September 1852, Syed Omar willed the land as a living bequest, under the trusteeship of his family members, to be used as a burial ground for Muslims. Over the decades, the trusteeship of the land changed hands until August 1897, when Syed Abdul Rahman claimed possession of the land.2 The defendant, d’Almeida, claimed that he had purchased the land from Haji Abdul Gani, a dependent of Sultan Ali, by an indenture dated 20 September 1897 for $2,500. He also claimed that Abdul Gani had previously acquired the land by a grant made in fee to him by Sultan Ali on 13 March 1875."
    - subtitle: Sultan’s Burial Ground
      description:
        - line: "The Jalan Kubor Cemetery in fact grew out of three separate burial grounds located in close proximity to one another. One section was referred to as Tombs of the Malayan Princes on an old map by the colonial architect G. D. Coleman that was published in Calcutta and London in 1836 and1839 respectively.7 This part of the cemetery was reserved for the royal household of Sultan Hussein, although the sultan and his son Sultan Ali were both buried in Malacca.8 In 1875, the municipal engineer’s report on burial grounds in Singapore referred to this section as the Sultan’s Burial Ground. It covered an area of 3 ac with the entrance at Victoria Street. Despite its status as the burial ground for royalty, the report observed that anyone could in fact bury their dead there, which resulted in the area being packed with graves. The area was also described as being “in a very neglected state” with no one looking after the place. The report thus recommended the closure of the burial ground by fencing it in.9 The great-grandson of Sultan Hussein, Tengku Hussain bin Tengku Haji Ali, was one of the last royal descendants to be laid to rest at the family’s burial ground following his death in 1954."
    - subtitle: Malay Burial Ground
      description:
        - line: "Another section of the cemetery, which adjoined the Sultan’s Burial Ground, was referred to in the municipal engineer’s report of 1875 as the Malay Burial Ground. It was located in the part of Victoria Street near Rochor Canal and occupied an area of around 5.3 ac. Unlike the royal burial ground, this area was well maintained and already fenced in. The report noted that there was an average of 22 burials per month in the area for the past year. A registrar by the name of Mahomet Syed was also recording information such as the name, sex, age, residence, disease and date of death of the people buried there. The reported also pointed out that the area was commonly known as Syed Omar’s burial ground.11The name was probably in reference to Syed Omar’s deed bequeathing the land for Muslim burials and the fact that Syed Omar was also buried there following his death in 1852.12 As more members of the Aljunied family were entombed there, the area also became known as the Aljunied burial ground. Syed Omar’s nephew, Syed Alwee bin Ali Aljunied, was another prominent figure of the Aljunied family who was laid to rest at the cemetery."