---
title: Innovative Services and New Experiences For All
permalink: /nlb-prototypes/
variant: markdown
description: ""
---
<h2><strong>NLB’s 2024 Year in Preview – Innovative Services and New Experiences For All</strong></h2><p></p><blockquote><p>In line with LAB25’s spirit of innovation, NLB to pilot three tech prototypes, and reopen the Central Public Library with exciting spaces for discovery</p></blockquote><p></p><p>The National Library Board’s <strong>LAB25</strong> (Libraries and Archives Blueprint 2025) has been guiding our journey of innovation and experimentation since its launch in 2021. In addition to enhancing its physical libraries and archives, NLB has offered an array of new services to deliver an omni-channel experience to its patrons. This included setting up library Nodes at train and bus stations, malls, and hospitals, opening pop-up libraries (Manga, Comics and the latest <em>Garfield </em>x Mr Kiasu) around Singapore, starting delivery services such as The Little Book Box, and Borrow-n-Deliver (which was launched in June 2023), and launching Punggol Regional Library, the biggest public library in Singapore in April this year.</p><p>Visitorship and loans have been steadily increasing following the dips during the pandemic, and this has significantly boosted NLB’s Reach. As of August 2023, the overall Reach, or the proportion of Singapore residents who have visited NLB’s libraries and archives, and accessed NLB’s content through our programmes, exhibitions and services in the preceding one year was 78.0%. This brings us back to pre-COVID levels (72.5% in 2019), and represents a significant increase over the previous year (61.7% in 2022).</p><h4><strong>New Experiences</strong></h4><p>The strong responses to the new services have encouraged NLB to develop new ones, and enhance existing pilots, such as the Nodes around Singapore and the self-checkout system Grab-n-Go. In 2024, everyone can look forward to more new experiences and innovations from NLB. These include the following:</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>&lt;span style="font-weight: 700; font-size: 20px; font-style: normal; color:#eb7044"&gt;Reopening of Central Public Library on 12 Jan 2024&lt;/span&gt; – After closing for a revamp in June 2022, this library will reopen with new experiences in learning for children and adults. Look forward to going in depth into Singapore’s culture and literature, and sustainability. More details soon!</p><p></p></li><li><p>Three major exhibitions – The first exhibition based on the Singapore Architecture Collection will open later this year and run till next year. Jointly presented by NLB and the Urban Redevelopment Authority, the exhibition aims to enhance Singaporeans’ appreciation of our built heritage. Second, the Laws of Our Land exhibition will reopen at the National Gallery Singapore with refreshed content and artefacts that trace Singapore’s legal history and the laws that founded the nation. Third, the exhibition featuring pioneer Nanyang artists will showcase new materials and insights from the significant 1950s period in Singapore’s art history. The exhibition will be held at the National Library in late 2024.</p><p></p></li><li><p>Expanding our digital content offerings – More e-resources, including for e-learning, will be available for all in the coming year. This includes Season 2 of NLB’s popular <em>From Book to Cook</em> series, which features Singapore’s culinary heritage. There will also be new video streaming e-resources&nbsp;offered for the first time by NLB.</p></li></ol><h4><strong>New Tech Prototypes</strong></h4><p>In a wide-ranging experiment to push new frontiers in learning and discovery, NLB is testing the use of new cutting-edge technologies such as Generative AI. Since April 2023, NLB has been working with private and public sector partners to develop several new prototypes that aim to enhance how Singaporeans discover, learn and experience. In the next few months, NLB will launch three tech prototypes, ChatBook, Glue and StoryGen.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p></p><p>Details of the three tech prototypes and our vision for what they can be are as follows:</p>